.\"
.\" BSD Zero Clause License
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Thomas Voss
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
.\" REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
.\" OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 28 2022 $
.Dt ADDTASK 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm addtask
.Nd add a task to the tasks directory
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility reads input either from the standard input or from files provided as
command line arguments and writes each input to a file in the task directory.
If a given input file has the name
.Sq -
then input is taken from the standard input.
The task files written to the task directory are named starting at 0 and
incrementing with each next file.
The task directory where input is written to is located at
.Pa $XDG_DATA_HOME/tasks.
If the
.Ev XDG_DATA_HOME
environment variable is not set then the input is written to
.Pa ~/.local/share/tasks .
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width XDG_DATA_HOME
.It Ev XDG_DATA_HOME
The directory where the
.Pa tasks
directory will be located.
If this environment variable is unset then the default location of
.Pa ~/.local/share/
is used.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Add two tasks.  One task created with the
.Xr mktask 1
utility and one task stored in a pre-existing file:
.Pp
.Dl $ mktask -o . 'Take Exam' | addtask study-for-exam.task -
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mktask 1 ,
.Xr taskfree 3 ,
.Xr taskread 3 ,
.Xr taskwrite 3 ,
.Xr task 5
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Thomas Voss Aq Mt thomasvoss@live.com
