.\"
.\" BSD Zero Clause License
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Thomas Voss
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
.\" REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
.\" OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 28 2022 $
.Dt MKTASK 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mktask
.Nd write task files to standard output
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl a | o | u Ar datetime
.Ar title
.Op Ar author ...
.Nm
.Fl a Ar datetime
.Fl u Ar datetime
.Ar title
.Op Ar author ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility reads from the standard input and outputs a well formatted task file to
the standard output.
The data read from the standard input forms the body of the task while the
heading of the task file is specified via the command line arguments.
The first non-option argument provided to
.Nm
specifies the task title while the remaining optional arguments specifiy the
.Pf author Pq s
of the task.
.Pp
.Nm
also has 3 options which can be used to specify the datetime frame of the task.
Each of these options takes a
.Ar datetime
as an argument in either the format
.Dq %H:%M %Y-%m%d
using
.Xr date 1
syntax, or using a custom short syntax.
The short syntax is in the form
.Dq N[M]
where
.Sq N
is a date delta and
.Sq M
is an optional modifier.
Date deltas are relative to the current UTC date.
A positive delta
.Sq N
represents the date N days in the future while a negative delta
.Sq \-N
represents the date N days in the past.
The special delta
.Sq \&.
represents the current date.
The syntax supports the two modifiers
.Sq ^
and
.Sq $ .
The modifier
.Sq ^
represents the time 00:00 on the day represented by the delta while the modifier
.Sq $
represents the time 23:59.
Example usages can be found in the
.Sx EXAMPLES
section
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a Ar datetime
Specify the date and time after which the task must be completed.
This option can be used in union with the
.Fl u
option to specify a range of time.
.It Fl o Ar datetime
Specify the date and time on which the task must be completed.
This option cannot be used in union with any other.
.It Fl u Ar datetime
Specify the date and time before which the task must be completed.
This option can be used in union with the
.Fl a
option to specify a range of time.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Set a task with no body which must be completed by the end of 2 days from the
current day:
.Pp
.Dl $ mktask -u '2$' 'Review Dimitars Merge Request' Thomas < /dev/null
.Pp
Set a task which can be completed at any time from the current time:
.Pp
.Dl $ mktask -a \&. 'Finish Writing mktask(1) manual' Thomas < task-details
.Pp
Set a task which must be completed from the beginning of the previous day to
midday on the first of Feburary:
.Pp
.Dl $ mktask -a \-1^ -u '12:00 2022-02-01' 'Throw out the Trash' Thomas Lucas \e
.Dl "	< task-details"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr addtask 1 ,
.Xr date 1 ,
.Xr taskfree 3 ,
.Xr taskread 3 ,
.Xr taskwrite 3 ,
.Xr task 5
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Thomas Voss Aq Mt thomasvoss@live.com
